Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout, everybody. I'm Rachel. I lead customer marketing
here at Posit and the host of the Data Science Hangout.
And I'm Libby. Oh, sorry. I'm Libby. I'm a community manager who works here at Posit
with Rachel. And I'm also a Posit Academy mentor.
And we're so happy to have you joining us today. The Hangout is our open space to hear
what's going on in the world of data across different industries, to chat about data science
leadership, and connect with others who are facing similar things as you. And we get together
here every Thursday at the same time, same place. So if you're watching this as a recording
in the future, and you want to join us live, there'll be details to add it to your calendar
below. We're all dedicated to keeping this the friendly and welcoming space that you
all have made it over the years, and love to hear from you no matter your years of experience,
titles, industry or languages that you work in. And I know people really enjoy connecting
with other attendees in the chat as well. And we'd love to see the chat that happens.
So I want to encourage you to briefly introduce yourself over there in the Zoom chat and say
hi, maybe your role, where you're based, something you do for fun, or even share your LinkedIn
if you want. You could also use the chat to share any open roles that your team may be
hiring for as well.
And there are a few ways to jump in and ask questions today or just to share your own
experience because that's also wonderful. You can raise your hand in Zoom, Rachel and
I will call on you to jump in and ask your question. You can also put your question directly
into the Zoom chat, and we will call on you to unmute and ask your question or give some
context around it. But if you happen to be somewhere loud and or your mic's not working
or what have you, you can put a little asterisk next to your question in the chat. That'll
let us know to read it for you. And then there's also a Slido link that will be in the chat
where you can ask your question anonymously if you don't feel brave enough to unmic today
and that's totally fine. And we are so happy to be joined today by our co-host Sharon Machlis,
who is a longtime tech journalist and data professional who has recently retired. Everybody
celebrate with Sharon that she's recently retired from Computer World slash IDG Communications,
renamed Foundry. Sharon, would you like to introduce yourself?
Sure, I am unmuted. Yeah, I am a longtime, as you said, longtime technology journalist. I started my career
as a daily newspaper reporter, and when we get into unexpected career paths, I wanted to be a political...
I love data. I actually was thinking about majoring in statistics, but at the time I went to college,
you know, when dinosaurs roamed the earth, there was no R, no Python, no data journalism, and I took
political stats. I'm like, wow, should I change my major? I really love this. And I'm like, well,
what can I do with this? I don't want to teach. I don't want to be an actuary. No, I'll stick to
what I was doing. You know, I mean, like if I was today, things would be so different. But two of us
had wanted to be the statehouse reporter, and the other guy got that job because
the editor said I was better with numbers, and I ended up as the business reporter. And that was
when the Route 28 area outside of Boston was like a hotbed of many computer technology.
And so I started covering tech, and I'm like, wow, I super love this. So, and that's where it all
started. I spent a long time working as a journalist, a tech journalist, writer, and
editor at Computer World. And in 2017, I was asked to change roles to be a data professional
because I was doing data journalism. And to keep my R skills sharp, I started working with our
website analytics, and people liked those reports I was doing, and here we are. So,
and I just retired a month ago. So July 31st was my last full-time working day. So this is all
pretty new. So thank you for having me, even though I'm now leading the life of leisure. But I
do hope to still keep my hands in things and follow the R space, the generative AI space,
because things are so cool and exciting and fun. Thank you. I'm sure you'll be here for a long time
more. And thank you for sharing a little bit about that journey as well. So I know you just like
touched on it, but can you share a little bit more about like that decision to start to
use R? Like what kind of got you to that point? Well, it's really funny because I was working
with our federal government reporter on a data journalism project, and he got this really cool
data set. And it had over 100,000 rows, and this was, you know, over 10 years ago. And I'm trying
to open this in Excel. And then we're like, we find something odd here. And then the source for
the data set is like, oh, no, there was a mistake. And then, of course, you know what happens. It's
like, oh, my God, I have to like do all my formulas all over again. Shoot me now. And I
don't even remember where I found out about R, but I found it. I'm like, why did someone not tell me
about this sooner? So this was like in 2012 or 2013. This was pre-Tidyverse. So I was learning
base R. And then the Tidyverse happened, and dplyr happened. And I'm like, wow, this is the
greatest thing ever. Because I had coded in a number of different languages before. I, you know,
I mean, my graduate computer class, we learned Pascal just to let you know how long ago we're
talking about. But I had really liked Perl. I liked PHP. I learned SQL. But somehow the syntax
of R just spoke to me, particularly when we got to the Tidyverse. dplyr was like, oh, my God,
this is just amazing. And that was it. And I switched from SQL and PHP to R. I am trying to
learn more Python now because I'm super interested in generative AI. And while you can do some good
generative AI stuff with R, I mean, all the platforms, all the really good platforms like
BlankChain and Haystack and LlamaIndex, they're all either JavaScript or Python, which is fine.
And now I have time to learn. Awesome. Well, Sharon, we forgot to ask you this in your
introduction, but what's something that you like to do in your free time that also isn't data
related? Photography. Love photography. Also love running. Those are two super fun things.
And I'm learning American Sign Language. I have a deaf niece. And that's been really interesting.
Nice. So now you have a lot more time for that too. Maybe.
Yeah. Well, the ASL, I mean, I've learned other spoken languages and I've learned other computer
languages. But this thing about a visual geospatial language is just like a different
part of my brain. And it's really interesting. I love it. That sounds expansive and wonderful.
Well, I have a quick question for you. I would love to know, being a journalist,
what did you learn about data storytelling that you can share with us as an audience that
frequently needs to tell stories with data or communicate to stakeholders? What have you
learned through your journey? Yeah. In my time as an editor mentoring
younger writers, the big thing I always would tell them is you have to answer two questions.
So what? Who cares? And that's with everything. That's really with everything. And the journalism
things about you need to grab someone early. You have to have a good headline and a good lead
paragraph because people have the attention spans of a gnat. I started my career in the print days
when you had page one of what we would call above the fold. It was sitting there on the newsstand
or in the machine. And you needed to grab people if they wanted to take money out of their pocket.
I mean, it's kind of the same online. It's not that different. You need a good headline and a
good description. And it's the same with data. I learned early, we would be in page one pitch
meetings, the daily page one, and you'd have to make your pitch to the editor who's like
the overall editor who was just not as immersed in this cool thing. And they call that an elevator
pitch now or whatever. But I mean, you have to be, if you can't say it in three sentences about why
this is cool and interesting, then go back and do it again. I mean, that's just kind of the things
you learn as a writer. And it is the same thing with telling stories with data. And I needed
help with people to make that connection because somehow I was not doing that when I started
doing data stuff. It's like, wow, look at all this cool data. Wouldn't everyone want to spend
half an hour and dive into that? Yeah, they don't. So, you know.
Quick question. Kylie asked, did you take your background photo?
I did. Thank you very much. This is up in the White Mountains of New Hampshire
during the Lupin Festival in June a couple of years ago. Yes. Thank you.
Beautiful. Sita, Priya, and apologies if I mispronounce your name. I see you had a question
in the chat. Do you want to jump in here? Sure. I wanted to know which was your most
favorite headline that you wrote? Oh, gosh. You know, I honestly, I wish I could answer that,
but I can't because I honestly don't remember. You know, most of my favorite stories I wrote
and writers don't write the headlines. The editors write the headlines. So,
it's a great question, but I just can't think of anything right now. Sorry.
Isabella had asked on our team, how do you write such high quality articles?
So quickly and what tips maybe you'd be able to share with us?
Thank you so much. You know, it's funny because I feel like I can write and I had a lot of
experience writing news on deadline for print deadline. I mean, you know, it's like the
deadline is 9 a.m. If you want to make the print edition, if it's 903, you don't make the day's
paper. So, you just get really good at it. I'm much better at writing news articles fast and on
deadline than feature articles because news has a kind of template, really. It's what they call
the inverted pyramid. You know, you put the most important stuff first, who, what, where, when,
and why, and then you go down. And then, so again, print days, you know, if someone has to go in with
their exacto knife and slice off the last three paragraphs, it still makes sense. But a feature
article is not like that. And wow, those take me a lot longer and I don't have any tips for how to
do those fast because I'm, I mean, I'm probably slower than someone who hasn't done it, you know,
for 30 plus years, but it's not a quick process. I would say one of the things I like to do in
the newsroom is just like go and talk to a colleague who wasn't involved in it. And like,
while I was excited, try to tell them what I was writing about. And if I couldn't do it before
they're, you know, really quickly before their eyes glazed over, I needed to go back and figure
out what it was that was so interesting and that had captured me. Thank you. I mean, I can't imagine
writing anything quickly, so I'm amazed either way. Mike, you had a fantastic question. Would
you like to ask that? Yeah. So Sharon, thank you for posting your definitive guide to getting
started on Mastodon. Can you kind of summarize for folks here, like why they should think about
moving to Mastodon and, you know, tips for finding our people there? Yeah, so I mean,
not to get all political, but I'm just, I mean, I loved Twitter until the ownership changed and I
got unhappy. But a lot of the art community has actually moved to Mastodon. Mastodon is not quite
as easy to figure out because you have to pick the server you want. And then like you may not
see everybody if you're on a small server. And if Mike, if you want to post the link to that in the
chat, maybe that would help people. I do, I am collecting people who post about R, using R,
of course, because Mastodon does have an API. And I'm querying some of the largest servers to see
who's posting with the R stats hashtag. And I will dig that up by the, if someone else doesn't dig it
up, I will, I will dig it up for you and post it because that's, that's really helpful. It's not,
there is no algorithm. So, so like things won't be surfaced for you. You have to be your own
algorithm. But if you, if you post, if you follow a few people who we post a lot, you'll, you'll get
there. It's, it's a little more work, but it's yours, you know, it's yours, which, which I really
like. And, and a lot of the art community is there, you know, the political community is not,
mostly not there. The news community is not mostly there, but R is there. So,
so it's a good place to be, I think. And kind of what I see there is that the, if you like
the nice kind of collegiate, you know, keeping each other informed and sharing tips and tricks,
that side has come across from the kind of old Twitter, but without the noise and the,
the other nastiness, you know, it seems to be quite a nice place to be if you can get hooped into it.
Yeah, I think it is. I mean, there's a, it's, it's a very, it's a very inclusive community.
And, and I mean, also like there are a lot of cultural norms there. Like if you post an image,
you must have all text there or, or people will complain to you. And I, I, you know, I have to
admit that I wasn't really good on about that on some of the social networks. And now I've been
really training to do that so much on Mastodon that I do it everywhere else also. So it's,
there are some nice, you know, there are pluses and minuses, but, but I, I, I really like the
art community on Mastodon. I would, I would recommend it. People are nice.
And Sharon, I'll find that link and grab it and put it in the chat. But I see Lisa, you had a
follow on question here and about, about the fear of missing out on our stuff. Do you want to jump
in? Sure. Yeah. So I think it's pretty hard to keep up on every single new development going on
in R and especially if you spread yourself to Python as well. So how do you sort of get to be
okay with not knowing everything? How do you decide which thing to investigate and what are
your tactics for going about investigating those new things? Or how do you learn about those new
things? That's a really, really, really good question because it's, it's completely overwhelming.
You know, I remember when I started covering technology, I was covering the mini computer
industry for those of us who remember that, you know, it was like digital equipment, data general
and prime, computer, and maybe Wang. And, you know, once every nine months, you know, they,
they announced like a new, a new model and it was like a big deal. And the pace of change and
innovation from when I started doing technology journalism is just amazing. So I would say there
are a few things, you know, I try to follow people who, you know, I respect and who are, who are
really good at it. You know, some of the package developers, you know, when I was doing this for a
living, I would try to think about, well, you know, like it was a little different than just
like what was good for me. It was what was good for my audience. So there were certain things that
are useful in the art, really useful in the art community that were not useful to my audience.
Like there's a lot of stuff going on in, in the medical space and, and the, you know, the, the,
the bio research space, that's really interesting. But my readership at InfoWorld and ComputerWorld
were information technology professionals and they didn't care. So I would just kind of have
to skip that. And I would say, you know, for yourself and your work to first, you know, to,
to, to look at things and say, you know, how could I use this? Might I use this? You know,
if, you know, you go to GitHub and you see what, I, I follow people on GitHub and I look to see,
you know, what's bubbling up. I, I will sometimes look at the R, you know, just R stuff on GitHub to
see, you know, occasionally I'll see, is anything new popping up? And I'll look and I'll see,
I mean, some things I'll, I'll post that, that I'm never going to use myself because it looks like
it'll be interesting to other people. And then there are other things that I'm like, wow, let's
try this. And then, you know, you have to be, you have to be willing to waste half an hour and say,
you know, wow, I tried this thing and it's not really going to be useful for me at all.
And that's, was a lot easier for me to do. And this was my job as opposed to like,
most of the rest of you are trying to fit this into your like real job and your real lives.
So it, it does help to follow people who do, I guess, you know, write and report about this. I
mean, I can say that now it's not self-serving because I'm not doing it anymore, but it does.
Unfortunately, there, there aren't that many people covering the R community. I mean, I was,
I mean, there are a lot of people doing it as a passion, but in terms of commercial
journalists, sadly, there aren't that many people doing it. I think more people do it for Python.
My former colleague Sardar at InfoWorld covers Python and he's really, he's really good. I would
like follow anything he says, honestly. When I was, we did one joint webinar together about back
in the day, you know, pre-Positron when it was like really kind of hard to run, run Python in
RStudio. It's all super easier now. You know, he kind of helped explain like, well, why should I
use a virtual environment? Which, you know, I mean, I shouldn't be doing that in R2 and I don't.
But wow, you really shouldn't, Python. It is surprising how many package conflicts they are
when you're just trying to do basic things. So I don't know if that answers the question. It's,
it's, it's hard. It's hard. And you will miss things and you have to be okay with that.
But if something, eventually, if something is like super amazing, like you will find out about it,
even if you just casually follow social media, because it'll bubble up. LinkedIn is another,
I know there are some people who don't like LinkedIn because it's a little bit self-promotional.
But LinkedIn has a lot of good R people also. And it has an algorithm. So things will bubble
up if a lot of other people like it. I'm on both Mastodon and LinkedIn very regularly.
Yeah, the, the algorithm helps actually. I think the intimidating thing about Mastodon for me is
that there is no algorithm. I'm like, oh no, this is so much work. I have to, I have to be the
algorithm, you know? It is. There's been a lot of discussion from people who are like, you need to,
you know, Mastodon should consider that even if it's an opt-in thing. But, you know, because people
are worried it'll change the culture that suddenly people will be going for likes. And I, you know,
and I, I see both sides of it. I really do. Interesting. It'll be interesting to see where
the R community, RSAT community goes as, you know, the fall of Twitter has happened.
But I had a really great question from Abigail pop up. Abigail, do you want to ask?
Yeah, thanks, Libby. So I feel like there was sort of this moment of everybody is going to
write code and people who, you know, are journalists will write code and like everybody
will write like a little bit of code. And I don't hear much about that these days. Like,
how do you think about sort of the specialization thing in terms of to what extent it makes sense
for newspapers to have, like, your data scientists and your developers over here and your journalists
over here versus people who, you know, have some expertise in something and also code or
journalists who code? Like, how do you think about the specialization thing?
That's, you know, a lot of great questions here. That is a great question. I think not everyone
has to be a coding expert, but I think even basically if you're a local news reporter and
you're writing about budgets and spending and campaign finance, you know, yeah, I think you
can do a lot with with being a Power Excel user. But I really do think that it helps to have just
sort of a basic knowledge. But everyone can't be an expert in everything. And I think it's really
helpful for media people to have people on staff who are data journalists. I think it's really
helpful. Now, the question that arises these days is, well, what about generative AI and how much
can it help people who don't know how to code well? And I think it will help. I think someone
who knows the basics, who understands the basics, but isn't like super fast at it and isn't super
good at it because they don't do it every day, I think generative AI will help. And I think, you
know, one, two years from now, it's going to be a lot better. But if you don't know what you're
doing and you get crappy code and you can't fix it, it's just going to end up wasting your time.
I mean, it also depends what you're asking it to do. You know, I'm trying to learn the Haystack
platform now for generative AI. It's new. It's not that popular. Haystack 2.0 came out not that long
ago. Trying to get chat GPT to write stuff like that for me, like it's really painful. But when
I'm asking it to help me with like super basic Python, because I can never remember what the
commands are to deal with pandas data frames, like it's really, really, really good. So it also
depends on what you're trying to do, I think. I think for the basics, we'll find that generative
AI will be a big assist, if that answers the question.
Sharon, I know when you and I were chatting, we talked a little bit about like domain expertise,
sometimes being undervalued. And I wonder if that weighs in here as well in this topic of generative
AI. It weighs in really heavily, both with generative AI and also with data science,
because I, data journalism, because I, it is just, if you're a data scientist, and you're
working on a journalism project, and you're not a domain expert, you need to partner with a domain
expert. I mean, you just have to, or just you're going to make terrible, terrible mistakes.
Whether that's a journalism project, or actually, you know, I, because I understood our media
business so well, I understood all the weird quirks that we had in our Google Analytics
implementations. I understood, like, oh, like, you think this is important, but actually there's,
it's not necessarily as important as you think, because blah, blah, blah. I mean, because I had
the domain expertise, it made me a much better data professional on my job, even though there
are a million people who could code better than me, who have, who have more training about data
science than I do, but they couldn't compete with me and my knowledge of the business. I mean,
knowledge of the business is just so important. And I mean, you know, when they hire my replacement,
they can't hire someone who has 25 years of experience at the company. I mean, so they're
going to be, you know, what they're looking for now is the data science expertise. I mean, I
literally could not qualify for the new job that they put in for my replacement, which is not really
my replacement. It's, it's, it's a completely different position. But this is also one, by the
way, one of the things I want to remember to talk about when we're talking about careers before I
forget, you know, when I got pulled into this, the whole data journals and thing, and, and the sort
of like using data to, for analytics, it was still a pretty new field. I mean, it wasn't new. There
were like a million people who were, who were working on it like decades ago. But I mean, in
terms of being like suddenly, if you remember all the headlines, oh, data science is a new cool,
like sexy, sexy profession. I mean, that was relatively recent. And there weren't a ton of
people who had the formal training. There are a lot of people who have the formal training now.
And I, my guess is it's a little more difficult to break in now without the formal training,
which is really sad. I think a lot of people without formal training would be awesome.
But where we are, where that was, then we are with generative AI now. I mean, there are, I mean,
yes, there are a lot of people who've been working on machine learning for 15 years and they're
experts, but this whole thing of how you use generative AI, well, almost everyone is at the
same place. I think if you're young or mid-career, and you're interested in, in that, especially if
you're somewhere else and planning to move to that, this is your moment, in my opinion, get
really up to speed as much as you can and go for it. Because I just really feel that's where we
are now, where I was in my career in 2013, 2016. Yeah. Thank you so much for that.
Mauro, I see you had a question a little bit earlier in the chat. You want to jump in here?
Yeah, sure. It's a question. It's a little bit quiet. We can't hear you. I'm not sure if the
headphones. Let's see. Does that help at all? I can. Yeah. Okay, great. Thank you. Yeah. It's
a question about writing. Actually, I realized that some of the developers that I admire are also
very good writers. And some time ago, I came across that quote that says something like,
you know, as a developer, you are first, you know, writing for humans rather than computers.
So I wonder if you could share your favorite resources to learn how to write well,
which I'm guessing that also connects with writing software well.
Yeah, that's, you know, I would, I would say, see what you like, you know, see what I mean,
just, just, I think, I think reading good writing is just very inspiring. I mean, that's,
that's kind of what I feel. I mean, it's been so long since since I went, I went to school,
you know, I did, I did, you know, study journalism in school that was like a billion years ago before
like there was a World Wide Web even. So I don't have like a lot of good ideas in terms of like
learning to write. But I think it's a great idea to look at things and see what you like and what
you don't like and then ask yourself why when like, well, how is okay, this is I think this
is kind of terrible. How might I kind of the same way you would do with software? Like,
how might I rewrite it? How could it be? How could it be better? And I do think that commenting your
code, I mean, I know, like, we all say we should do it. And like, nobody wants to do it, because
we're on a rush to like, you know, to get the thing written. But it's a really good exercise
if you can't really explain what you're doing in comments, then like, and also documenting your
code as well. You know, I do think, I mean, I think everyone can learn to write reasonably well.
I don't think, you know, I don't think just the way like everyone can run. And, you know, I can
finish a 10k, but I can't finish a 10k fast. You know, everyone can, you know, I can learn to dance,
but I can't be a professional dancer. You know, I think that but I do think everyone can learn to
write reasonably well, if not like get paid for it. You know, in some, you know, as a professional
writer, I it's sometimes I'll be honest here now that you know, I mean, I'm retired and who cares.
But it would it would kind of irritate me when it's like everyone should blog, you know, like
everyone should have a blog. I'm like, well, yeah, I mean, it's good to do that. But I mean,
when you're putting it out in the world, like, make sure that you have a degree of competence
before you're telling people read this the same way as you know, everyone can write software.
But before you're telling people use my software, like make sure you have a certain degree of
competence. You know, I will say I worked for eight years before I between my newspaper job
and and working at Computerworld, Infoworld, IDG, Foundry. I spent a few years at an engineering
magazine where half the staff were writers and half the staff were engineers. And it was just
amazing that some of these engineers were just like incredible writers. And I'm like, how can
you do this? How can you be both technical and write this way and some of them were really ghastly,
you know, and you know. Yeah, how much of it is native talent versus not doing the work,
I can't really say, but. Thank you so much. I, I love that. I think that part of the
the thing is like doing a lot of it, maybe before you put it out there, just do a lot of writing.
Practice makes perfect or practice makes adequate. You know, it's also interesting
now because people are talking about using generative AI, chat, GPT, and Claude as editors
where like you put your thing in and say like, well, you know, like, you know, act as an audience
of what, you know, like whoever your audience is, you know, like, like beginning art developers or
IT professionals. And here's this thing, you know, how, you know, what do you think about it? What
would you suggest? There are people who do this for a living who are actually starting to use that.
And that's, that's an interesting resource if, if you don't, I mean, because everyone,
everyone knew at work. One of my editors was always, one of my mottos in the newsroom was
always everyone needs an editor, you know, and when I was writing, I needed an editor.
When I was an editor, I'm like, yeah, everyone needs an editor. When you're doing it yourself
and you don't have an editor, you are really at a disadvantage, I think. And, you know,
the, the possibility of, of using a Claude or, or ChatDBT, and a lot of people say Claude is a
real, is really good at writing and writing style. So that's, that's another possibility.
That's, you know, I can't guarantee that it's going to give you great advice because maybe it
won't, but yeah, it might be fun to play around with. I love it. Kind of like rubber duck debugging,
but for writing. And I have a question that is a little bit selfish. I would love to ask you
if you've ever had a career setback that really felt bad at the time, but it ended up being a
blessing in disguise or sent you in a better direction. It's the one that I talked about
at the beginning when I talked about, I mean, I really, I mean, my dream was to be a political
writer and, you know, I studied political science and journalism in school. I mean,
that was like the whole point. I mean, I did take, I did take a computer course back in the
day when it was really difficult to get into computer courses, because unless you were majoring
in it, like, you know, they couldn't really spare the computer time, you know, I was going in there
with my cards. I mean, it was like those days. And when I found out that the other guy got to be,
you know, the Washington reporter, and then the other guy got to be the state house reporter,
and I didn't, I was really crushed. I was crushed. And then it turned out, like, I started
covering business. And that was just at the rise of the mini computers in the Route 128 belt in
Boston, you have to be really old enough to know that that was a huge, you know, world center of
technology in the 80s. I'm like, this is really cool. I'm having a lot of fun with this. So,
you know, my, my whole career ended up turning on this, like, sort of weird decision by one guy
who's like, and I mean, I will tell you, in the 1980s, for an edit, for a male editor to say,
I want the woman to be the business editor, because she's better in numbers, and the guy can
be the Paul. I mean, that was like, super not usual. I mean, that was still in the days where
I would go to these business meetings, and there would be like, maybe one other woman there.
But it, you just never know. It turned out to be a great thing. And I had a career that I really
loved. Thank you. Arsena, I see I missed a question from you way in the beginning, and
would love to have you ask that next. Sure, no worries. Thanks, Rachel. And so, so yeah,
my question is actually pretty simple. I'm wondering if you might be able to talk a little
bit about any, any tips that you might have, or anything that you've learned along the way
for making your data itself, or kind of like a data story, more interesting than it usually is
to a lot of people. When, when I start talking about data to folks, their eyes glass over,
and that kind of thing. So yeah, just wondering if you had any thoughts on that.
You know, going back to my days as a business writer, and you know, it's really hard when you
love data to not want to like, chuck all the interesting numbers, like right at the top of
your story. And I kind of learned that you really kind of have to spread it out. And you can't put,
you know, three data facts in your lead, and you can't put a ton of numbers in your lead, because
sadly, everyone is not like us. They should be, but they're not. No, I'm kidding.
I'm not kidding about everyone is not like us. But you know, my, the first time I became a
manager and got management training, I mean, it's kind of embarrassing to say, but it's like,
it was just such a big revelation, like, like, people don't like talk a lot at meetings, just
to annoy me personally, but it's like, kind of the way they work through things. And just the idea
that people are like, different, the way they want to get information. And I just have to keep
reminding myself that it's like, if you're talking to people who are not data people, and you, you
know, you're sending them like an email or a memo or like a dashboard or something, you really have
to limit the amount of numbers that you put in at the very beginning, you need it's like your lead,
you have to draw them in, you have to tell them this, you have to start telling them this story
with one compelling thing, not like five data points that they have to sort of use their
cognitive energy to figure out, well, what's more important here. You know, that's why the
graphs where they, where they, you know, highlight the important things and gray out everything else
are, are, you know, Financial Times does that a lot. It's, it's really compelling, because people don't,
people who are not data people don't want to use their cognitive energy to figure it out. It's like,
you know, we love that. That's like the fun, like, you have to, like, oh, my God, I have this big data
set, like, what can I see in it? What can I do with it? Let's go play with it. And oddly enough,
so many other people are not like that. Thank you. I, oh, I have a hard turn back to social media.
Yes. Question for you. Nessa, would you like to ask your question?
Oh, yeah. Hi there. Yeah, I was just asking about other alternative platforms out there,
because all the people that I know in the world of chemistry, actually, not all of them, but
the majority have moved to Blue Sky post Twitter. And I just realized, as I was here, I've been on
Blue Sky for a while following all my chemistry people. And I don't think I really follow any
data people on there. Is there a data Blue Sky? Is there a data Fred's or something?
Yeah, you know, unfortunately, since, since what happened to Twitter happened, you know, the,
what do they call it, microblogging platforms have kind of fractured. And it's still,
I think it's still shaking out. You know, Blue Sky.
I think you have to have an Instagram account in order to have Blue Sky. And I don't even have an
Instagram. Fred's. But yeah, Fred's. That's right. Blue Sky. Blue Sky is the former Twitter is Jack.
Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, my, my feeling. I mean, my personal feeling about that was,
you know, I kind of got shafted from, from, from Twitter in terms of not being happy with,
with the way it, the ownership changed. And I didn't want to have the same issue with,
with Blue Sky, because, you know, it could conceivably the same thing happen. I don't
think there's anything wrong with it. It's just, you know, I'm not there. And I don't think there
are people there. I don't know if our people are there. Fred's is starting to federate with
Mastodon now. You can now like people on threads who have turned on federation. You can now like
follow them, although the, like the interaction doesn't work as well. I would like to say another
thing that I do use a lot is RSS, going back to the first question about how you keep up,
I should have mentioned this. I do use RSS feeds a lot. And I use Bob Brutus, if you're familiar
with him, he's a security guy who's big in the R community. He had recommended Inoreader for me
a while ago. And I was using the free version. I wasn't all that excited about it. I'm like,
am I really going to pay for this thing? Well, now I'm paying for this and I like,
I can't live without it. I, I read it all the time. So if you have the paid version, you can,
you can, in addition to following RSS feeds, you can also follow some, some websites that don't
have RSS feeds, but you could like turn them into one. I'm trying to remember if it's BlueSky
or Threads, but one of them does have RSS, I think it's BlueSky, does have RSS feeds for all the
people on there. So you can actually import that into an RSS reader if you, if, if you aren't on
there. I am also using this, someone, someone, a couple of people have a bridge from Twitter to,
to Mastodon and I follow some people that way. Honestly, I'm still on Twitter. I still read
Twitter. I, I, I started posting political, I will not post like self-emotional stuff or data stuff
on there, but until November, I'm probably going to be on there politically, but you don't want to
follow me on Twitter if you're done with that. And, and you don't anyway. I mean, but.
It's interesting to hear how people are kind of like all over the place.
It's really, it's, you know, people are saying there's not going to be another, another thing
that was like Twitter in its heyday just because things have fractured. It's really a pity. It's
really a pity. I see Bill had a question a little bit earlier that was, and Bill, feel free to jump
in if you want to. I've gotten used to reading yours. Okay. But it was, were you finding,
um, he's called out a specific person, but wasn't sure if the name was right. Were you finding that
since Steve Bostock, um, and the evolution of graphics as presented online in the New York
Times has increased interest in some people, um, about using data to tell stories?
Yeah, I'm guessing that's about Mike Fox, Bostock and the D3 and the observable. Observable is a
really interesting thing. Unfortunately, I don't know why I, but JavaScript syntax does not speak
to me. I mean, it's nothing against the language. I think it's a great language, but syntax is just
a personal thing and I just, I don't really enjoy it the way I enjoy R. Uh, but going back,
you know, I, I think USA Today with the weather page, that was like such an innovation. Like,
oh my God, they have a whole page devoted to, to weather graphics. I mean, again, I'm dating
myself, but y'all know I'm not young. Uh, but I think that was kind of the start of it, but I,
yes, I do think Mike Bostock and what he did in the New York Times, what was definitely made,
made people more interesting in that, interested in that. I think as more main people see what you
can do with data and how useful it is in, in, in their sort of mainstream consumption habits,
I think it's really helpful. Thank you. Um, so a question I had for you and maybe go back
a little bit to your decision to enter retirement. So I'm down in Connecticut with my family this
week and I went for a walk with my dad this morning who just retired two weeks ago. And so
I was telling him, like, we had this conversation and he was talking to me about like, well,
what actually, like, how did you get to the point where you decided that you were now ready
to retire? And what was, what has this process been like for you?
It was really interesting because, you know, my friends who retired said like,
when you're ready, you'll know. And I'm like, how do you know? It's like, you'll just know.
And I was thinking of retiring next year, next spring. Uh, and then, well, for those of you who
are, who know about web analytics and Google analytics has their new version, Google analytics
for, and that was kind of a very high burnout project dealing with that. And so I was, I was,
I was talking to my boss about like, after the GA4 project is done, like, I'd like to take,
can I take maybe like four weeks off to rest and recharge and then like get ready to, you know,
like in August and then get ready to, and he was looking into that with HR and then it was Memorial
Day weekend. And I was thinking of, okay, like if I, if I rest and recharge, like how do I want to
reshape my job? And like, what do I want to look like? And then I'm like, I don't,
I'm kind of done. So like, you know, Thursday of Memorial Day weekend, I was like thinking
about how I'm going to reshape my job. And by Monday I'm like, yeah, I'm retiring. So it's,
you know, to, to say it's, people laugh. It's like, like, how do you know you're in love? Like,
you just know, it's like, there's not like a, but you do have to know that you're going to be ready
to give up your professional status. And, you know, there are some people and there are some
people who need the structure of, of work. I mean, I don't feel I do. I've been working at home since
before the pandemic and I can structure my own, you know, whatever, but I, I have been blogging
about my, I am going to sort of self-promote here in the chat, but I have been blogging about my
retirement journey. So I started like a couple of weeks before I actually retired and I'm so
this should be it, I hope. So if, if anyone is interested either in that sort of decision
process or what it's like to be a new retiree, and I mean, it's, it's one person's experience,
but I've been reading a lot about it and it's, you know, I was expecting it to be a lot harder
than it was, but I also, I have one post about retiring in the summer was a really good idea.
One of my friends said, whatever you do, don't retire in the winter. I mean, I'm one of these
people that doesn't, doesn't like the dark and the cold and to be sitting inside, not doing
anything would be really sad. So, you know, but I would say if you are ready to retire, pick the
season that you love the most. I mean, if you're a winter sports person and like, you would like,
love to spend all winter skiing, like, well, yeah, let me try in the winter, but,
but it was just weird. It was like, I wasn't, and then I was, it's, I can't explain it.
Thank you. I have a question here for you that is now that you have retired,
who else should we be watching for? Who else should we follow as far as data journalists
or data scientists who are writing to kind of take up your torch?
I mean, I, I would, I would say I'd, if, if someone hasn't posted the link yet about my,
my, my list of people who post about R and Mastodon, I, I would highly recommend looking
at that because that's a really good way. I did also, I did also have an app looking at the,
at the Posit conference posts. And, all right, I need to, I need to find that because let's see.
Yeah. So that was this. So, you know, take a, take a scroll,
take a scroll through there and see who looks compelling.
You can, you can look, hang on one second.
Because you can like go, Fostodon, which I'm not really a fan of in terms of server, but,
but a lot of the R people are, in terms of how they run their server,
they got very pissy at me because I, I posted a couple of posts about it.
In terms of how they run their server, they, they got very pissy at me because I, I posted a couple
of political things, one like really, but you can actually follow, you can actually follow
without an, without an account. Like if you go there, you can see the RStats stuff that's being
posted. And if you add a .RSS to that, you can pull it into an RSS reader. So you can start with
that. You know, I don't know if you can see who I follow on Mastodon, but I haven't, I don't think
my list to public, I don't think the list to public in Mastodon, but. We could put together
a list with the recording too. Yeah, I would say that's, I mean, like
there are some, there are some really good people there. I can't, it's hard for me to
think of them off the top of my head, but I do have a list and I could send it, I could send
it along of the people that I, that I have in my RStats list because they're all, they're all really
interesting. So. That'd be great. George, I see you had a question where you said as someone that
works on retirement projections and I'd be interested to learn a little bit more about what
that means too, if you want to jump in and ask that question.
Oh yeah. Yeah. I work on projecting retirements and in a workforce that at one point was a hundred
thousand people. And now I work with a much smaller, in a smaller organization, but it's
overall just been a really interesting thing to try and predict such a thing using, you know,
predictors like age, tenure, the kind of job that they do and various accuracy rates and
over time. So I've been doing it for, for maybe eight years, but yeah, I would just,
I've never had the chance to actually sit down and talk to someone that is actually retired
and get to know like, what is that process like? What goes through your mind? What kinds of,
things play into that? And it's, it's funny because he kind of just said, I don't know,
I just kind of woke up one day and it was, I knew it was time. But yeah, I've never had that
experience of, of kind of doing that exit interview. And I think that would just be
really interesting. So I don't know if there's any, anything else you can add to that, but
that's where my. You know, I, I've, I've heard about those retirement, I've heard, I've heard
about that and, and God, I would love to know like when I would have been predicted to retire.
But yeah, it's, it's, you know, no, obviously, I mean, I'm close to social security retirement age.
I mean, you know, obviously if, if you're doing retirement age, you know, retirement projections,
you don't happen to know that my husband has a government pension, but that's, you know,
that sort of gives one a lot more flexibility than one might other have, you know, with, with,
with, you know, union, union, union subsidized health, retiree health insurance. You know,
I mean, those are, those are kind of things that, that would be super useful to know that you
probably can't know, but. Yeah. Yeah. We know, we know the retirement plan that the person is in.
Right. But I mean, the spouse, I mean, the spouse, I mean, I know a lot, I know a lot of people with,
you know, with spouses who are either, who either have government pensions or still working
and they feel much for you to retire, obviously. And, and I mean, there's no way you can know that,
but. Appreciate it. Thanks. Thank you, Sharon. Alan, I saw that you just asked a question.
Would you like to ask that? Yeah, sure. Hi, Sharon. I followed you for a while. It's fun
to hear your voice and to, and to see in conversation. I'm really curious if now
that you don't have the, you know, the day-to-day week to week routine of the,
of the job, are there writing projects that are, are bigger or longer term,
or things that you just couldn't get support for while you were working that you'd like to pick up
that you might, that you might turn to realizing it's only a couple of weeks into vacation.
You may not be ready to think about those kinds of things yet, but I'm curious if there's a new
freedom to do projects that you couldn't do before that you're excited about.
There definitely, there definitely are. And I mean, I want, I do want to spend more time getting
serious about learning generative AI stuff because I just think it's, it's fascinating and
super cool. And I would, you know, I have some coding ideas in mind about local, local projects,
like dealing with local government information, what you can do with that, whether it's, it's
government meetings and agendas, whether it's, it's campaign finance. I mean, there's just all
sorts of stuff out there that I just never had, never had time for. I, I, you know, I want to
spend a little more time on my, I have a like tiny little neighborhood blog that right now is, is
mostly, I mean, like not my city, but like my city council district. I mean, I'm talking neighborhood
right now. It's, I I've done some stuff, it's stuff with events. So like, I, I like, I've been like
web scraping events to like put in a, in a searchable, you know, shiny calendar and sort of
stuff like that. But I'd like to get more serious about maybe covering some more of that. We have a
new friends of the, I'm really big. I like, I said, I liked running. I also, I just recently bought a
new bicycle and I'm really big on pedestrian friendly and bike friendly infrastructure.
We have a new friends of trails group that I'd really like to get involved with and help them
in some way. I think as the weather gets bad and I'm inside more, I, I, I am, I am considering
freelance writing for my old employer. I want to, I want to have some time away before I,
but you know, there, there are just sort of bigger feature how to projects that I never really had.
My new role was supposed to be like 75 data, 25 writing or 80, 20, something like that.
And I did do some writing, but as the Google analytics project came up,
it's like, I just didn't really have time to write anymore, which made me sad.
But, you know, to, to have the luxury of, of just learning something and then being able to
write a how to about it. You know, I actually, I, I spent about six months learning on my own
time, taking copious notes. I mean, this was like 2012, 2013. I mean, there weren't the kind
of resources available that there are now. And I, I ended up with this like, you know, 60 pages
of my own notes. And then I'm like, I have all these notes. Like, why am I not writing this for
computer world? And that was my computer world beginnings guide to R which ended up being like
one of the most popular things we had in terms of people being willing to register to download the
free PDF. You know, I don't think it would be that popular now because there's a zillion other
things out there, but at the time there really weren't. So I'd like to think about some other
things that are maybe underserved in terms of cool things to, to be able to write how to that
maybe are not that commercially interesting, but that are interesting to me, I guess would be the
best way to describe it. I remember hearing about your most popular shiny app on the mosaic
crochet. I imagine there's a few shiny apps in your future, these next few months too.
I've made all these shiny apps that are, you know, like search government meetings by, by,
you know, by full text and, and, you know, weather and this and that. And I do, I do crochet not now
when the weather's warm, but in the cold weather, I crochet and there's this thing called mosaic
crochet and, and people, it's like a very intricate way of, of, of, of designing it.
Like he designed the pattern and I was trying to, I'm never going to design my own pattern.
I always used to say at work, you know, nobody pays me to design. And there's a reason for that.
But I wanted to like, understand how it works so I could better, you know, work on other people's
designs. So I may, I made a little like shiny app and then I'm like, well, I already made it.
I'll put it out there. Oh my God. It's like the most popular thing I've ever coded. Like,
like I now I have to like check to make sure no one's using it before I reboot my little
digital ocean server because they're like people from all over the world on that thing. I'm like,
really? So, you know, you just never know. That's awesome. Um, we, there was an anonymous
question from earlier that was, you mentioned that you're learning Python. Are there any
resources or tools that you'd recommend as a Python learner? Oh gosh. Yeah. And of course
I can't think of it off the top of my head, but there are a couple of online resources that are
really good. I'll try to dig them up afterwards. The other really interesting thing for basic
Python is sorry to say it, but chat GPT, uh, it's actually a really good tutor. I mean,
you know, I tell the thing like I want to learn how to, you know, I want to learn how to,
again, it has to be something like popular where it has a lot of things, but I want to learn how
to, how to manipulate data frames and using pandas, you know, like here's where, and then
someone, I'll find this also because someone has a custom, what they call a custom GPT,
which is a way to, to like have GPT, chat GPT do a specific thing. Uh, and they have one to create
a tutor. So, so you actually use this thing and say what you want to learn. And then,
and then it like, like does it and it's, it's really interesting. So I use that thing to say,
I want to learn how to do Python, you know, like Polars and, and then it like creates this whole,
whole, like it's, it's kind of, it's kind of amazing. I mean, it's, it's, it's absolutely
amazing. I mean, the fact that this thing is really just predicting your next token, you know,
your next word, your next like portion of words, and it can do this. I mean, I've read all the
explanations of it and it's still just mind blowing. I mean, the people who invented this
thing had no idea that these things would be able to code. I mean, it's just, it's wild.
Thank you. Well, I know we're down to the last few minutes here and you've already shared
some great career advice with us as well, but I, I just want to give you the opportunity to
also share. Is there anything else that was like top of mind or maybe career advice that you've
received over the course of your career of given others that you'd want to share with us?
I mean, I, I would, you know, people always, this is very counterintuitive, but, you know,
people would say like, you know, imagine where you want to be in five years. I'm like, really?
You know, five years ago, I had no idea that there would be such a thing as generative AI,
you know, it's just, I don't think in this field you can, you can structurally envision
so concretely where you want to be in five years. I, I would suggest, think of the broad things you
want, you know, I want to be doing cool things with data that interest me and also X, you know,
and then work from there. But, you know, I mean, the, the pace of change is just remarkable and,
but I think if you, if you have a basic foundation of, of what you think you want
and you're good with change and you like learning new things, you'll be great.
I love that. Thank you. And thank you so much, Sharon, for taking the time to join us today.
I really, really appreciate it. And congratulations to you on your retirement as well.
Thank you so much. And I will try to get some of those resources over to you if you want to then
share them also, but, you know, particular thing about the people in mass,
the mass that I'm posting and our people, if people should.
Yeah, absolutely. And now that I have Libby here helping as well, we will get much better about
sharing the resources and links with the recording too.
If you want to hang on for one second, I want to see if I can find it like right now.
I think, I think it's just on my server. I think it's just, yes, this is it. I can post it like
right now. Stand by. Okay. It is here. Perfect. Thank you so much. Have a great rest of the day,
everybody. Thanks everyone for coming. I'm so glad to see you all.
Have a good rest of the week. Bye everyone.